# Linear Regression
### 1. Import Libraries
    from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
    from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
    from sklearn.metrics import mean_squared_error, r2_score
    from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
### 2. Identify Feature and Target Variables
    X = df[['column_name']] # feature (independent variable). 2D array (double brackets).
    y = df['column_name] # target (variable to be predicted). 1D series.
### 3. Split Data into Train and Test Sets
    X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.2, random_state=42)
### 4. Train Data
    scaler = StandardScaler() # initiate StandardScaler
    X_train_scaled = scaler.fit_transform(X_train) # fit and transform train data
    X_test_scaled = scaler.transform(X_test) # transform test data
### 5. Run Linear Regression Model
    model = LinearRegression() # initiate linear regression
    model.fit(X_train_scaled, y_train) # fit model with training data
    y_pred = model.predict(X_test_scaled) # predict data
### 6. Evaluate Model
    mse = mean_squared_error(y_test, y_pred)
    r2 = r2_score(y_test, y_pred)
- **Mean Squared Error (MSE):** The closer to 0, the lower the deviation between true value and prediction (= good fit). MSE is sensitive to outliert!
- **R2-Score:** R2=1: perfect fit, R2=<0: model does not explain the variance. Example: R2=.8 means that 80% of the variance is explained by the model.
### 7. Visualization
    plt.scatter(X_test, y_test, color='blue', label='data')
    plt.scatter(X_test, y_pred, color='orange', label='predicted values')
    plt.plot(X_test, y_pred, color='gray', label='regression line')
    plt.xlabel('Ffeature')
    plt.ylabel('target')
    plt.legend()
    plt.show()
- **Blue points (true data):** scattered along a certain trend
- **Orange points (predicted values):** that should closely follow the blue points if the model is good
- **Gray regression line:** represents the linear model’s prediction of how y changes with X
